* Spec: Curriculum Publisher MVP

** Document Meta
*** Status: Draft v0.1
*** Owner: Product/Content Admin
*** Repo: testing
*** Last Updated: 2026-04-05

** Product Intent
*** Problem
Creators need a simple way to publish structured educational pages on the web without adding account systems, progress tracking, or external data integrations.

*** Goal
Ship a markdown-first curriculum site that supports readable public pages and controlled publishing states.

*** Success Criteria
- Content owner can create and publish pages quickly.
- Readers can browse and open curriculum pages on desktop and mobile.
- Draft content remains hidden from public listing.

** Scope
*** In Scope (MVP)
- Public curriculum listing page.
- Curriculum detail pages rendered from MDX.
- Publishing controls through frontmatter (`status`, `visibility`).
- Basic embedded content components (alerts, YouTube).
- Static site build and deployment readiness.

*** Out of Scope (MVP)
- User authentication and roles.
- Progress tracking and social collaboration.
- CMS integration (Sanity planned for later).
- External database ingestion.
- In-app WYSIWYG editing.

** User Roles
*** Content Owner (Primary)
- Writes and edits MDX in repository.
- Controls publish state and visibility.

*** Reader (Public)
- Views published curriculum entries.
- Navigates index and individual pages.

** Information Architecture
- Home (`/`) lists all `published + public` curriculum entries.
- Detail route (`/curriculum/[slug]/`) renders an individual entry.
- Slug derives from content filename.

** Content Model (Current)
*** Collection
- `curriculum` in `src/content/curriculum/*.mdx`

*** Required Frontmatter
- `title: string`
- `summary: string`
- `status: draft | published`
- `visibility: public | unlisted`
- `updatedAt: date`

*** Optional Frontmatter
- `tags: string[]`

*** Rendering Rules
- Home page includes only entries where `status=published` and `visibility=public`.
- Dynamic route is generated only for `status=published` entries.
- If an entry is not `public`, route redirects to `/`.

** Technical Architecture
*** Stack
- Astro 4
- MDX integration
- UnoCSS (+ typography preset)
- Astro content collections

*** Key Files
- `src/pages/index.astro`
- `src/pages/curriculum/[slug].astro`
- `src/content/config.ts`
- `src/lib/content.ts`
- `src/content/curriculum/*.mdx`

*** Adapter Pattern
Content reads are abstracted in `src/lib/content.ts` to allow migration from local MDX to Sanity later with minimal UI changes.

** Editorial Workflow
1. Create or edit MDX file in `src/content/curriculum/`.
2. Set frontmatter fields.
3. Run local preview and build checks.
4. Merge and deploy static build.

** Non-Functional Requirements
*** Performance
- Static pages should load quickly on typical mobile networks.

*** Reliability
- Build must fail on invalid content schema.

*** Maintainability
- Use reusable components and a stable content adapter layer.

*** Accessibility
- Semantic headings, readable contrast, responsive layout.

** Current Published Topics
- Intro to software development.
- Massage learning and therapist pathway.
- Automotive mechanic foundations.
- Marine mechanic basics.
- Aircraft maintenance basics.
- Real estate construction materials.
- Human anatomy focused on muscles.
- Nutrition biology of meats and fruits.

** Roadmap (Post-MVP)
*** Phase 2: CMS Integration
- Replace MDX source with Sanity-backed content via adapter layer.
- Add preview workflow for draft content.

*** Phase 3: Collaboration
- Add authentication, editorial roles, and revision history.

*** Phase 4: Learning Platform Features
- Add progress tracking and optional social/collaboration modules.

** Open Questions
- Should `unlisted` pages be accessible by direct URL in production?
- Do we need taxonomy landing pages by domain (Trades, Health, Aviation, Real Estate)?
- What is the desired publishing cadence and review process?

** Acceptance Criteria (MVP)
- At least 8 published curriculum entries are visible on home page.
- Each entry route renders without build/runtime errors.
- Draft entries are not listed publicly.
- `npm run build` succeeds locally.
